In this video I'll demonstrate how to perform a storage Wii motion.
So let's take a look at our hosts and Klosters view.
And here you can see we've got a couple of ESX I host and we've got a virtual machine called Wii motion
demo and the Wii motion demo virtual machine exists on my shared data store currently.
And I can validate that by expanding the VM hardware here.
And when we look at hard disk 1 we can see that it's stored on our shared data store.
So that's where my VM is currently located.
And let's say in this scenario I'd like to relocate this virtual machines files.
So here we see the shared data store and if we look at files we can see all of the files associated
with this virtual machine in the folder that has the same name as the VM.
Right.
So we've got things like the VM DK file the VM X File.
All these critical files that my virtual machine needs in order to function.
And so what I want to do is take those files in a while the virtual machine is running.
Migrate them to one of these other data stores.
So that's what we're going to do in the scenario that we're going to take this Wii motion demo virtual
machine and we're going to migrate all of the data and the virtual machine is going to remain on the
same host.
It's not going to move to a different host but all the files are going to move to a different data store.
So I right click to my VM chose migrate and now I'm going to click on change storage only and I'll hit
next.
And here we can see the possible data stores that I can migrate this virtual machine to.
So I'm going to choose data store one.
And at this point I can actually change the format of the desk.
So if I want to take this virtual disk and thick provisioning or thin provision at this point I can
do that.
I'm going to go ahead and choose then provision and I'll hit next and I'll finish.
And that's going to kick off my storage Wii motion.
So now that my stored Wii motion has been kicked off how long it takes really is going to depend on
the amount of data that you have on your virtual disk.
This particular virtual machine has a 10 gig virtual disk and we're actually only using 4 gigs of data
and it's extremely small.
That's by design so that I can easily demonstrate everything.
So we can see it happen almost immediately.
Right now I can see my virtual machine has been relocated to a different data store.
The VM never stopped running right.
And the storage the motion was completed.
Now one final thing I just want to point out if we click on monitor for this virtual machine you can
schedule this as a task as well.
So I could create a new scheduled task I could choose migrate and I could migrate to a different data
store as a scheduled task as well.
So for example I could move it back to my shared data store and I could schedule it to happen some time
later tonight.
All right so for example let's go ahead and just set it for let's say 10:50 p.m. and this is something
that is often a good idea with storage v. Motion's because storage of emotions can be really really
resource intensive where you're taking a lot of data in certain cases and moving it from one data store
to another.
You might not want to do that in the middle of the day because it might introduce enough storage related
work that it's actually going to slow down the way that your virtual machines operate.
Right.
So scheduling these for later isn't necessarily a bad idea.
Lots of times it make sense to schedule a sort of emotion to occur sometime during whatever your maintenance
window is.